[game]
Working Title: Harvest Moons (prolly not)
description: Travel to nearby star systems to set up sustainable (agricultural) systems to feed the growing Earth Alliance Population.

[mechanics]
map: Non-cartesian sphere, a la asteroids (or something similar/cooler). Non-cartesian in the sense that leaving the sphere at one point on the edge of the sphere membrane will result in apearing on the opposite side of the sphere membrane. This would be illustrated in logic, where the visual representation would mainly have to be noticed by the player when they realize they've passed the same star constellation like 7 times. The player is always at the center of the galactic map, so that they can see the relationships of star systems such as trade/resource routes in relation to their current position. Possibly allow them to switch between which planet has focus, but somehow revert focus to current system by default.

farming: Players plant seeds that grow into food-bearing plants. These plants need to be established and maintained according to their needs (environmental, nutritional, co-nutritional (plants to grow with it, avoid mono-cropping)).

ranching: Players have the option (are not required) to herd local fauna for their milk/resin/honey/meat. Certain creatures can also be tamed and used to fulfill certain functions. Each of these creatures has an effect on the environment.

environment: The player must be constantly aware of the effects they are having on any given system environment, such as pollution or social structures. These contribute to the efficiency and sustainability of their operations.

workers: Local indigenous peoples can be hired to work on the land. If given enough accomadations, other alien races can move around the galaxy to work in different capacities. This allows you the option (at great cost to yourself) of having a human/any-other-race-only workforce.

politics: It is required that you maintain the native population's permission to work on the land, and they will judge whether or not you are maintaining it to environmental satisfactions (if they are concerned with that). Mistreatment of local people, including your workers, will result in a loss of faith in your operation, giving rise to the possiblity of loss of rights to work the land, thereby decreasing your ability to feed the growing human alliance. This in turn will work to radicalize the humans back home into pushing their governments into more militaristic scenarios.

economy: Players do not gain income by selling their wares. Rather, they are judged based on their ability to provide enough nutritional foods to solve the growing hunger problem back home. In return for a job well done, players are provided funds and resources to expand their operation and improve their tools.

online: Players may choose to play with friends by creating custom galaxies for them and their friends to play on. Players can also join larger servers that would not be player hosted and contain a random assortment of players. For each planet (starting with earch), a player is alotted several plots of land, each corresponding to a different biome present on that planet. Each player acts as a representative to a portion of the total human population that they have to feed.

planets: Planets are comprised of continents and oceans and what have you, but they are also comprised of biomes. Each biome is represented as a percentage of the planet. Each player is granted (once certain conditions are met) the same amount of land for each planet, where the biome percentage directly correlates to the plots of land that they are stewards of. The health of these local biomes depends on indigenous as well as player practices in how they treat the land. The health of all local biomes contribute to the health of the major biomes that they represent, which in turn contribute to the health of the planet as a whole. Local biome size can shrink or grow depending on the climatic conditions of the planet and how they change over time, i.e. if the players and indigenous species introduce too many greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, temperature on the planet will rise, giving way to natural disasters and re-sizing of biomes. So if a flood occurs, that might increase your fresh/salt-water biome size, but decrease your forest biome size. Consequently, your crops and animals function more efficiently and live with less stress if their biomes remain relatively stable. Upset this process, and you will surely have gains in some of your biomes, but not enough to make up for the major losses in land and efficiency in others.

processing: Players have the option of finding less-expensive ways of transporting their food. Such processes might include freeze-drying or processing the food into a final product, such as a kind of chip, soft-drink, pre-made pizza, or healthier choices that I can't think of right now. Processing can increase the Earth population's opinion of your food, but could decrease the overall nutritional value of they get from your food. Processing can be used as a short-term means of getting enough calories and at least basic nutrition to the Earth population, but is unsustainable when the player wants to increase the standard of living for the Earth population.

population: The Earth contains a growing number of residents that need fed. The overall nutrition of the world population contributes to their happiness and efficiency in their day-to-day lives. It is from this population pool that players rely on for establishing farm-steads on other planets, and in many cases, managing parts of the operation that have grown too huge for the player to adequately deal with. Investing in how Earth is fed will be the focus of the game, where choices made by the player result in either rising or falling nutritional value for the people of Earth, thereby contributing to the levels of unrest, hunger, motivation, and overall health of the population. These population attributes then feed into the player's ability to expand or improve their operation that allows a sustainable expansion of their operation in order to feed the growing population of Earth. Population growth is linked directly to the amount of calories that you can produce for the Earth population, where producing too few or too many calories result in instability, either from starvation or from lack of nutrition if too many calories are supplied without an adequate ratio of nutritional attributes.

[Design]
population: Unsettled: Should the Earth population continue to grow, or should how the player plays the game influence people's overall habits to the point where they limit their growth and/or the state mandates population growth? Or, should the game from the outset be unwinnable in the sense that growing the population will continue to rise and evenutally be crushed under its own weight, where war and chaos are sure to ensue not only on Earth, but throughout the whole galaxy?

