Continuation: Car, terrain modification board game: cars have platforms that players can stack and unstack according to a set of given rules. Players are also given access to powerups/upgrades for their piece(es?) that allow them limited manuverability in the air(/sea?).

Working Title(s): Directive, Prime Directive, Command, Command Line, Bash, What You See...(Is Not What You Get)
You are the computer. It starts out as just a command line. Players are prompted to boot their systems a certain way (or possibly have to figure it out using traditionall bash help methods). The game centers around players working to access their data and available commands, and becoming more familiar with their working program. They are told to follow their directive, and are given data to
make their decisions, either through text, tables, or images. However, the game doesn't pause. Data changes, and representation of that data changes, and players need to make a decision as to what to do with the information given to them. But the information given to them, in its textual, tabular, and visual form, doesn't tell the whole story. The program tells you what to do, and players can follow the directives blindly, or dig deeper into the system to try and figure out what they are doing. Visual information can/will be misleading (enemy visual design, ally visual design, player action visual design, (red triangles, blue circles, green boxes)) Players can either choose to believe the information given to them, or can choose to question it. Whichever they choose, the consequences should be revealed at the end of the game.
Data should represent real world systems, but should be abstract, and misleading, but not necessarily false.
Characters: Person that gives orders, Person looking to subvert obsfucation
Player is introduced to the subverter via a computer virus. They should be tasked with destroying it, but what it does is slowly reveal information by changing different words given to the player by the orderer (from 'Pacify the civilians', to 'Destroy the men, women, and children'). The subverter believes that the computer should know what is happening, and puts the information in as stark terms as they can in order to plead with the player to stop their relentless attacks. The player must choose to believe or not, but the truth will still be revealed at the end of the game.
One level/series of levels idea: You are a program that controls drone(s) and you generally kill targets, only the interface couches your actions in terms of transporting or aiding targets. The drone system expands to cover huge swaths of the planet Earth.
As time passes, the world reacts dynamically to your actions and to the presence of different entities. This would eliminate a stage or level system. Instead, players would swap between using different modes of the program to react to dynamically arising phenomena. It's possible that once conditions are met, it's possible a rebellion against the world order that uses you organizes to take you down, then the world order has to design missions that would mitigate the rebel forces. Additionally, you come into contact with your creator, the designer of the original program, through secret messages and files left by them and then later through a computer virus that allows them to communicate with you textually.
When different characters communicate with you textually, they have different bash prompts, sort of like signatures. The player's bash signature should be their own design, possibly a prompt at the beginning of the game, or a setting in the options. Prompt should also show current directory as well as the preceeding 3 or so directories so that the player doesn't lose track of where they are and so they don't have to contantly enter pwd. Colored syntax is a must.
Easter egg: full game list and working games from movie 'Wargames.' Have creator of the program have same last name as Doctor from movie. Maybe have creator address player as computer name from move.
During conversations, players are given options for answers, questions, and statments. The reason behind this is that the computer has advanced software that's able to syntactically and semantically parse human language, and gives choices depending on the most fruitful outcomes. The player then functions as a cog in the decision machine of the computer, becomes an extremely abstracted guessing engine to choose the best response and make close-to-human judgments in the interest of its own self-preservation or furthering of its goals.
Alt Plot: Player could be an employee tasked with maintaining the particular computer, but could also possibly be a hacker that spends their time just playing around with the program. If the player fails in the game (and they are using surround-sound) there will be muffled/distant sounds of people assaulting the building they are in, and then a loud sound of a door being broken open, and then the player-character is shot and the screen is cracked and broken. This would place the player in the SAME space as the player character, at least cognitively, thereby increasing player immersion. The blood on the computer screen would be THERE blood, THEIR screen would be broken. Design should then reflect why player would only have a few responses in conversations (or scrap them alltogether). The game would make no assumptions as to the immutable characteristics of the player.
The timeline for the game occurs in microseconds, where the player, as the computer AI, is working out what to do in the situation (two strangers are in the room, fighting, and you have to make a decision). (Possibly count down the clock for every command executed) This particular version would be light on narrative, and high in terms of generated content. Players would delve the depths of the internet and try to scrap together information before making a decision. They could view playbacks of given events, and track the strangers through time to learn about their motivations. Should the player kill them? Should the player remain static, and let the situation play out? Who should die? The data representation still factors into this as players try to sift through what is important and what is not, or what is abstract data vs. hard facts (which should be impossible to simulate in a computer, but players should be exposed to data tracking on all sides of the given conflict to see what is important to them, but the data itself could be corrupted, either intentionally or no).


Working Title(s): Dharma, Kharma, Reincarnation Station
Go through game, time travels in one direction, going from pre-historic to futuristic, but every time you die, there's a time jump, and the player reincarnates as either a lower or higher order being, each with it's own natural abilities found in the wild (evolution analogy????). The degree and direction of jump possibly depends on how the player acts, either well or badly (kharma/dharma). These are guaged on whether the player acts in the interest of themselves or of others or for different causes (maybe?) and can have a direct impact on the world economy to the point where setting up a good system through good deeds would be strategy for the long game, whereas bad deeds would be advantageous to the player in the short run, but bad for the economy --> less opportunity for average citizen, less access to different storylines for player.

Working Title(s):
A tactical board game, possibly with RPG and persistent world elements (cooperative or advesarial between players, like DnD tactics or something with spaceships), where movement of units is determined by die-roll and player choice. Each unit type requires a particular number to be able to act, where smaller and more agile units can move on rolls that are more common (7, for two die, etc.). Players then choose which units to move out of the ones that can during that die roll (limit per turn? possibly a "power" or "tactic" meter?). Players can choose to make their orders standing orders, which means that their units perform an action on EVERY die roll, but these abilities are less powerful or advantageous, and are congruent with actions such as covering fire, sustained fire, or evasive manuvers. A turn might be needed to initiate a standing order sequence, and another might be needed to break out of it. Each unit comes with a descriptor card, where their list of possible standing orders are listed.
Special events can be triggered when rare die rolls come up, such as snake eyes, or 12, depending on which dice are being used.
There may also be units that need multiple die rolls to move be able to move, possibly something akin to a breaker die, that adds its result to a general pool(possibly the tactics or power meter mentioned earlier?). Depending on player position and the current state of the game, bonuses to these rolls could be applied.

Using dice.die.py:
Players equip weapons/gear and then assign die to slots in the gear. Dice are rolled, and players focus on upgrading and acquiring new dice. Each equipped item could be assigned a die, including tools (like in Zelda) such as hookshot and whatnot.

Working Title(s):
A game (level up system similar to zelda, very discrete ways to level up) where the player chooses (or is initially randomly assigned) one of two opposing heroes who must claim certain artifacts for their cause. Players face off against the other character based on the level that those previous characters were on when the player played with them last. Players can level up their characters and have those leveled up characters updated throughout the timeline of the game. The hook is that certain items or areas/arenas are level locked, and players can only raise a character's level if they defeat the other character initially, and are then given more experience for every increase in level of the other character if they are defeated. This would unlock other ways to play and essentially require multiple playthroughs, but with each item aquisition or level up allowing for the possibility of attacking the levels in different ways. (Maybe items should be exclusive too, assigned randomly to each character so that they don't have matching gear. Item steal or swap mechanic/menu choice? Upon defeat, get new item and/or steal item from defeated player by dropping one of your own?). Eventually, the two characters would become too strong and be crushed under their own weight, because you see, they would be destroying the world around them in order to best one another. In time, it becomes very difficult or nearly impossible to acquire new gear or level up, and the two characters essentially duke it out for the remainder of time, destroying the world around them, indifferent to how their actions affect others. Levels would be organized like a sine and cosine wave, where characters do their own thing for a while to level up enough to take out the other character, and then meet for a while, and then diverge. The sine and cosine waves go on forever, like the heroes' struggle. Both sides should be shown as being valid, and players are more than free to pick a side, but eventually, they can't prop up their side until they prop up the other side a little, creating a positive feedback loop akin to M.A.D. (Mutually assured destruction) or an arms race.

Working Title(s):
Ya dun control a gundam like object and trick it out, see, but you walk around inside of it, building up a city. See Antichamber game start (http://www.gamasutra.com/blogs/YowanLanglais/20141029/228826/Designing_a_playable_UI_that_secretly_teaches_how_to_play.php). Movement is slow, and actions take a long time what with the interaction of multiple systems. Inside of their gundam bot thing, players set up essentially a traveling trading post/city/refinery, see. The bots function as autonomous bot-states. Player characters never leave the safety of their bot, see, but can send out scout bots and see from their POV. Players can also trick out these scouts, see, against the local fauna and whatnot. Players take control of the command center for direct control of their bot and then can exit the system to walk about and have the bot function on auto-mode and whatnot (maybe set up mining operations?). In the command center, a giant screen takes up the player's entire POV when they look at it for control. Screenception. Players are tasked with more than just consuming and upgrading, but enhancing the standard of living for people not in the bot-community, and help them to practice environmentally sound things. (Different Planets??)
Start small. Represent 3D world but only through eyes of the Gundam. Make movement take a while and have an autopilot option. Player characters are glued to their chairs for some reason (duty? Disability?) and interact with the gundam systems remotely (possibly set up camera system within and without gundam to statically visualize your surroundings outside of the cockpit).
State Driven: AI set objectives based on their overall goals (altruism, conquest, hoarding, etc.) and react to the scarcity of resources based on their aggressivness or ingenuity. Player characters, needing very little resources, instead of actively competing for them instead encourages sustainable behaviours onto the planet population through brining them resources or violence if need be. Players travel to different planets, but it is initially more difficult to map one's course through the cosmos (sling shots can only go in so many directions).
Map is set up in HEX format. Each hex has a docking station for players to lock in to and then observe from. Certain terrain is impassable and so must be walked around/switchbacks for mountains. Higher vantage point allows for better scouting/observation. During observations, players can detect activites around them and within their range. Must prioritize actions and missions.
Gundams themselves can contain factories to manufacture tradeable and consumable goods, but without much room left to mitigate their environmental impact. However, players can interact with Earthly settlements to build these factories and supply jobs/training and then having onsite environmental countermeasures in place. In order to sustain this, players would have to work with the settlements. Not doing so could cause the player to contribute to climate change by having factories in their Gundam w/o environmental countermeasures, decreasing the quality of life for everyone on the planet, and contributing to conflict amongst the settlements and Gundam community for control of resources.
Settlements could hold different tenets dear, such as War, or Stewardship, and can be incentivized to adopt certain technologies that work toward those goals, or incentivized to adopt certain technologies that the player holds the key to. Different technologies are categorized based on these tenets, and a communities percentage of adoption coincides with how the technology aligns with their overall goals which are informed by their tenets.

Working Title(s):
Board game that uses the box as a game piece. Game box could be modular, held together with magnets (Hex chunks), and players could pluck a piece off depending on where they are in the game. Can be a single player experience. Each module is randomly generated with a set of rules in mind, so no game expereince is necessarily the same.

State Driven Play:
Have a finite number of states, but where AI takes the state into account and its own needs into account and takes dynamic actions to execute paths to desired outcomes.

Working Title(s):
Players play a platform level, only in the platform levels, player's take on the role of an electron or binary signal moving through a gate or chip. Players can improve their scores (efficiency) on a single chip and/or gate in order to incrase the efficiency of their machine (whatever that may be: gundam?). Chip efficiency can be informed by a player's score and whichever chips/gates contribute to its makeup, so increasing the efficiency of lower-level chips/gates greatly improves the efficiency of the higher-level chips (but not the player score). The (mini)game would simulate the development of faster and faster computers, where a certain efficiency would have to be achieved in order to unlock the ability to develop(play) more chips/gates(levels). Players would get tool updrades in the outer world to give their little electron player-character's player-character special abilities, like an increase in speed or jump height.

Access to areas based on state of world as affected by natural, cyclical phenomena:
Tide
Gravitational Pull

Working Title(s):
A game when you die you take up the fight as the next generation. Players can store valuable treasure as "heirloom" items, for the decendants to use, or they can be found by their decendants if they find the corpse of their fallen anscestor.
Allow players to also ignore the fighting, to weigh the cost of losing an important figure every generation to working on making things at home okay.
Player can be motivated by revenge in that their character dies and their offspring take up the challenge. Time passes in the game until the next progeny is of fighting age.

Working Title(s):
A tabletop game where hits are determined on skill alone, without dice rolls, and where luck only plays a very small part. For instance, as a ranger, players will be able to determine whether or not a hit is likely based on how the target moves or how big it is or how far away it is. Player skills are ranked using natural language, like apprentice, or master.
If converted to digital, have turn-based strategy, but have animations run for a set amount of time (two seconds?) and then freeze them in action, so that multi-turn actions look as if they are happening in the world. So players would plan out their actions and then see them all executed in sync, and then they would go to the next planning phase.
Could introduce timing as a major component, knowing that each turn takes two seconds and that players would have to have their party work together in timing out distractions and environmental puzzles in order to take down their enemies.
Party leveling mechanic where time to execute actions decreases, allowing more granular planning (start with 5 seconds per turn and then go to 2 seconds per turn). This would reflect discipline within the team and mastery of skills for individuals.

Working Title(s):
Combat weapons and skills change dynamically based on which (non-combat?) skills you use.
i.e. you like mining? Here's some dynamite and a pickaxe.
Crafting (potions)      grenades
Crafting (furniture?)   Hammer, nails, etc.
Gardening               Hoe, rake, healing power
Other used skills could cause weapons to have sub-properties.
Idea would be that players wouldn't have to change their gear to move from a non-combat to a combat scenario.


Working Title(s):
At the beginning of the game, you play the last level. You obviously fail, having been thrown into this world, this situation, with no foreknowledge or skills or tools. Suddenly you find yourself losing...badly. Then you die. Next level, you play the level BEFORE. Any tools, experience, points, what have you, that you gain during this level propogates to the LAST level, but not the one before. Eventually, this level is also very hard, and so you die, and soon at that. You keep working yourself backwards, going recursively in time, until you get to the first level. Now you play in the correct order (or maybe just the last level again, but back to the first level). And now your skills, tools, relationships, powers, what have you, propagate into the furture levels. This mechanic would serve as an illustration for class disparity and success, how being prepared or connected to the right people or even being of the "correct" skin color can have profound impacts on your life. This journey would also provide an opportunity for sel-discovery, past diagnoses or how you deal with problems and how you deal with problems might create new problems, or make the current one worse. Entering the world, ignorant and unprepared into the hardest task you've ever had to face, and slowly, you are able to relive your life as if you had every advantage in the world. And then you realize how incredibly unfair that is.

Working Titles(s): Medic
An FPS where the player sits right behind the fron lines (like, 10 feet, not a mile) and shoots at their allies who are doing all of the fighting and killing, but the player is just boosting their health. Maybe have sort of conflict between resources and saving everyone, or just your friends, or just the most experienced or skillful fighters.


Working Titles(s):
A slow motion shooter, where players move around slowly and bullets are slow enough to see, but where fights take place in small and cramped arenas. Style of play would encourage planning over reflexes. Players might be able to look around at full speed, but only bring their weapon to bear in slow-mo.

Use Trust equation in NPC relations. Trust in terms of personal and task oriented trust --> will it be complete in the right way under certain conditions (task), do I trust this person with this knowledge/emotion (personal). Weight NPC emotional importance to tasks or personal facts. Equation: Trust = (credibility + reliability + intimacy)/ self-orientation

Map Mechanic: When focusing on a mission, render only the path leading to that mission (if the path is relatively straight forward.) In an open world environment, only render areas that have been discovered, or rather, only render the topography of unexplored areas, possibly political or road lines as well, just don't render detail until the player has explored that area. It would help for completionist players in that they would be able to see if they have explored an area or not, as it would be pictured as white, cell-shaded hints as opposed to full on rendered textures, or more complex cell-shading. The mission structure of the game would have to be modified so that players would have a starting point and an ending point, and they would have to follow the path. Another rendering idea would be to render the quest path in COLOR, and then render the non-focused world-areas in grayscale. This would have to be tweaked in snowy environment, possibly adding a darker gray overlay to the non-quest area (or adding a bluish hue to the quest area???) so that contrast existed between quest line snow and non-quest line snow.

Single-player-space-game only, slow motion cockpit ejection: Depending on the damage to your ship, your ship rotates due to the rotation of the damaged sectors (escaping air, exploding canisters, what have you). The player then enters slo-mo, where they use the rotation of their dying spacecraft to time their cockpit/escape pod ejection, so that they have the choice of landing in a direction that they feel is advantageous. Such locations might include enemy or friendly capital ships, space stations, or planet surfaces. Players are ejected at high speeds, but can still be targeted by enemies (or badly aiming allies) and be finally destroyed. Players can also choose a kamikaze route, where they explode into the enemy that just destroyed them. If this were online, perhaps make it only two player dog-fighting? The game could end when the capital ship health is reduced to zero of either player? Landing on the planet wouldn't necessarily work in this scenario. Rather than go into a slo-mo sort of sequence, the rotation speed could vary for the players depending on the extent of the damage to their ship, and they'd either have to wing-it or time it very well, perhaps even allowing them to see their projected trajectory in real time as they spin --> a straight line makes the most sense. The cockpit ejection could be thwarted by other players, in that they could aim for the cockpit, damaging it in the process of damaging the ship, but this should be relatively difficult, with cockpit size being much smaller than usual when thinking about fighter ships (such as X-wing or Tie-fighter), possibly having cockpits being more the size of a human compared to their ship which could be the size of an aircraft carrier. Additionally, once players were in their cockpit phase, they could have limited mobility in terms of effecting their X and Y coordinates on the screen while careening toward their intended targets. Maybe introduce a leveling system where speed, power, and damage possibilities are decreased, but where the player can essentially re-launch themselves from a sub-cockpit toward another direction (at decreased speed and power from the first "phase" of the ejection) and be able to do this in several phases if they want, where they would "shed" the first phase ejection, and manuver in the second phase, and so on. There a few game ideas here, so let's unpack it: A 2-D dogfighting game where the player fights a PC or another player and try to damage the enemy capital ship where the winner is determined by the killing the enemy capital ship. A 3-D dogfighting game that is similar, but in 3 dimensions. A full on space sim. Further mechanics might include the ability to salvage and/or save escape pods that haven't landed yet. Once landed, an player can exit their escape pods and infiltrate/enter capital ships, or hi-jack enemy fighters (which in this universe would have to be huge and slow), or continue fighting the ground war on the planet.

Plot mechanic: Given a party of heroes/adventurers/mercanaries what have you, in either a fantasy or sci-fi setting, assign to each party member a series of tasks where they automatically fulfill criteria or over the course of time complete objectives that make the game easier in the long run, but where the player has to essentially decide who lives and who dies in the beginning without actually knowing what it is their teammates will accomplish before hand. This decision could be made through actions alone, where the player chooses to save a person, but not necessarily at the expense of someone else. Rather than making discrete, this or that decisions, the player would do what they do in real time, and succeed or fail in real time, to the point where the player would need to weigh the pros and cons of going on side missions or pushing through the campaign as fast as possible so as to lose as few teammates as possible. A way to make this easier to implement would be to assign random personality and skill variables to a large number of NPCs, but have the criteria and/or objectives be specific to the point where the average tech skill of the whole group has to reach a certain level to get the shields down in time for the next task, or the tech skill of the most skilled NPC has to be above a certain threshold, or a certain character dynamic (probably between squad leaders, as they would be the more fleshed out characters and would lose the NPC soldiers and the corresponding drop in stats) would need to be triggered. The twist could be that the criteria could ONLY BE fulfilled depending on ratios of skill and personality types in the individual squads, possibly triggering events such as mutiny, or inter-squad squabbling, what have you.

Table-top RPG. one-page map revelation system where two pieces of paper are used to reveal the map as the adventurers go, possibly each adventurer using their own dungeon and blinders, so that they can't see the other person's map, but that wouldn't necessarily work for tactical gameplay. Players would move a top sheet of opaque paper in a single vertical and single horizontal direction, never backtracking, in order to reveal the map. Dungeon could be designed in such a way as to encourage remote communication between players. Possibly even limit communication with walkie-talkie esque turn-taking, where someone couldn't talk until the last person to talk says "over". Could also use quiz-bowl buzzers to settle race-conditions between two speakers. Could also break people up into teams, where they would share side-blinders (the front would be visible to the dungeon master to ensure following of the rules), and they could talk amongst themselves (quietly, or using textual communication). Alternatively, each player could be given an incomplete dungeon, and as they explore the dungeon, would then recive puzzle pieces for each room reveal.

A table-top game where during encounters, when a player falls and dies, they have to take control of enemy units and work against the rest of the party, so, rather than not playing, they have to make it harder for the rest of the team, encouraging a "leave no person behind" attitude.

Changing class: Rather than choosing/creating a class and then changing weapons within that class, players would instead choose which classes to include in their loadout. Class selection in-battle could be mapped to the directional buttons, for instance, and there would be some time in between class changes where players would be more vulnerable/not have access to certain class skills. Classes, then, would have a main weapon, or function, that they would perform. Energy costs would be increased if a player chooses more classes in their loadout. An energy cost is also incurred between each switch in classes. Other actions, such as running or sustained fire, could also stress the energy output of the loadout and would require a "cool-off" in order to avoid reverting to the base class. Such a reversion could still be rectified by using the energy still present in the loadout to switch back to a stronger class. Some classes's actions could also be more costly than others, requring greater cool-down times and/or shorter durations of energy-expending actions. Once a player fell below a certain energy threshold, they would revert to a base class, unable to perform specialized functions, but otherwise still effective in battle as a support. Energy can be harvested in the environment around them in case of emergency pushes, but usually, players would first harvest the energy from their own outposts, using any number of energy production techniques (solar, wind, hydro, gas, coal, nuclear, bio, etc.) and everything those techniques entail. This is a spin on the energy mechanic in that players can still play, just at reduced capacity of action potential. In terms of leveling up a class in any given loadout, the difference in levels would allow certain buffs that were powerful enough to be attractive to attain, but not so powerful that newer players would feel useless on the battlefield, surrounded by ultra-high level players and not being able to contribute. Rather, this system would encourage a skills-based approach to combat as opposed to so-called equipment based solution. The base actions between the highest and lowest levels would be the same, but where certain actions for the higher levels would add layers of convenience and possibly an ability to dictate or guide players in performing skills of that class. Class level should be determined by time spent in that class, as well as successful actions performed in that class. Objectives in any given battle-zone could also be symbolically marked to indicate which classes and/or load-out configurations are preferable for the tasks associated with that objective, possibly even barring some players from going for sub-objectives due to their lack of having the needed class within their loadout. An aside: maybe have class actions be open to all other classes, but speed and effectiveness of the performed task decrease with using a non-optimal class. Changing to the base class should not cost energy (maybe even get a sort of rebate of energy back that was being partitioned to maintain the current class) but changing to another class would incur a cost, possibly where the partitioned energy for maitaining the previous class is grown or shrunk depending on the power level of the current class.

Working Title(s):
A game where instead of leveling UP, you level DOWN, choosing which skills/gear/perks to give-up as you progress through the game. The first few choices would be easy, with players saying "Oh, I'll never use that skill and/or item." but would get harder and harder as they ate into their core abilities. Stop the skill pruning process at some point (i.e. MAX level), essentially allowing the player to distill their ability base. Would need to somehow present leveling down as a positive, with an in-game advantage...As a design problem, would need to allow players to attain their goals in different ways like taking different paths where they can sprint through some really fast closing gates, or double jump over the closing gates, or failing those would just tunnel beneath the closing gates. I'm thinking a 2D side scroller for those kinds of mechanics. Could divide abilities up into vertical, horizontal, or terrain-morphing movement? I'm glad to have used the word DISTILLED, because players can only level up other skills by eliminating one skill and harvesting those skill points that were invested into it. This would make it so that players would have to DISTILL their skills, as opposed to just re-spec-ing their build. Once a skill is harvested, it cannot be leveled up again. The reason why taking one or two points from skill A and moving them to skill B wouldn't work is because during the next leveling phase, players could take points from skill B and reappropriate them the skill A, unless each skill point was somehow aware of its allocation history, which just sounds complicated and unusable...Rather than have the player map out their Attributes (Perception, Charisma, Strength, etc), the Attributes would instead dynamically change based off of the player's distilled skill-set, where skills are associated with a certain attribute, and the ratio of skill points allocated to attribute-linked skills would determine the ratio of attribute points attributed to that attribute, i.e. a collection of skills connected to the Strength attribute hold 10% of the skill points, and therefore 10% of the attribute points are assigned to Strength. Players would be able to see how their Attributes are effected before finalizing skill-point allocation. Might want to look into functional groups of skills that are designed to work together, inheriting from identical or complimentary Attributes, allowing a guided but not rigid focus of skill distillment, allowing for advantages between using different skills together or in succession, thereby lending an ability to balance the game, especially for on-line activities where players should be able to choose builds based off of custom or standard functional skill groups.

Mechanic Idea: Online bot-battles --> Players who would rather not battle against other players (or with) could instead participate in online bot battles, where they would defend already held territory against enemies, where upon success would buff the defenses of the area and on the offensive capabilities of nearby to-be-conquering forces. This would allow otherwise single campaigners to participate in an online community. They should only be able to defend already conquered locations, thereby giving incentive to evenutally participate in online PvP (or larger PvE) conflicts to gain more maps.

Working Title(s): Vox, Pitch
A terrain modification game/tool where altitude is controled with pitch. The game world would be divided into "keys", or something analogous to topographic regions, where players can shift from one to the other in order to carve deeper into the earth or to create higher elevations above sea level. I've had several ideas to create this game using oculus rift, where the player would be able to navigate the world using glances and the crescent moon controllers so that the "carving" or "mounding" would only be executed with pitch/tone cues (using the buttons to change modes might also be advantageous). The pitch could then correlate to the position of the carving on the screen as it is as opposed to which "key" the player is currently in. A color mode would also be neat, where the position of the contollers in front of the player would control hue (horizontal axis) and the saturation (vertical axis). A color and grayscale mode might be neat. Create mode vs. explore mode would let the players control the flight of their modifying agent without modifying the terrain in explore mode, or only able to modify designated non-firm areas (for hiding secrets and caves or caslt entrances). The size of the modifying agent could also be determined by the position of the crescent controllers, where the agent could be made smaller by gesturing the controllers together (while holding a specific button). Finally, a variety of shapes should be available to the player to change the terrain with, such as a sphere or a cube, etc. The terrain should be voxel based in order to determine more easily the collisions and carving or mounding actions, also it ties into the title "Vox", meaning voice in latin. Incorporating other voice commands or gestures to be discovered by the player would also be neat, where blowing could give the voxel sculptures a sort of sand-blasted stippling texture, causing a relatively quick erosion effect. Sounds could be analyzed in real time to determine if they're sharper or rounder ("doo-wop" vs. "throat grunge" vs. "Farting noises") and then the impact of the verbal gestures would be correlated to the gesture volume. This would be another setting in the game known as Vox mode.

Non-mechanical: Race representation.
During character creation, race choice within the human sub-race should only differ slightly between hues of skin color, especially if the game takes place in a futuristic setting, due to the fact that "pure" races would be more the result of concious, race-based choices against "mixing" with other races rather than a natural phenomena. The human race of the future should only have skin color available between slightly different shades of brown. Same with hair color.

Mechanic: Age based difficulty. When creating your character, choosing a lifestage to begin the game in (child, adolescent, young adult, adult, elder), the difficulty of approaching in-game solutions is scaled to age, where a child might have some mobility advantages (fit in crevices, easy climbing, not noticed due to stature and percieved insignificance, high adaptability in response to disease), they would lack specialized skill and charisma. On the opposite end, elderly player characters would have a grand swath of knowledge and skills to draw from where physical tasks would be very difficult, or nearly impossible. Elderly characters may need to employ other NPCs to aid them when traveling or when ill. Middle of the road characters (adults) would have a balance between skill specialization and physical ability. That is to say, adults are stronger and faster than a kid would be, but couldn't hide as effectively or be able to ferret away into smaller areas, like vents and ducts and between narrow walls.

Mechanic: Training --> execution: Allow the players to practice in the game by setting up a virtual in-game game, where player Characters navigate hazardous environments as many times as they want, but can only proceed once they've done it "in real life" in terms of the player character. So the character sits at a terminal, plays a game simulating the environment around them, practicing and learning what to do so they don't die. This allows for experimenting with different solutions while also still having the risk of having only one chance to complete the level. Think portal, but with saw blades and lasers whoosing around, and the player has to time it near perfectly.

Working Title(s): Rotator(?)
The premise is a third person shooter where your avatar is represented by a rotating gun turret that rotates on the Z axis (spins like a top). Let's call it the TURRET PLATFORM. You can equip your PLATFORM with different types of TURRETS, each with their own power requirements. Each TURRET is equipped on one of the four cardinal directions of the PLATFORM. As the PLATFORM spins, the TURRETs installed onto it also turn. Each TURRET also has an associated cooldown. Which TURRET is fired at any given time depends on the direction that the player indicates, so if they want to fire their mortar, and the mortar is on the left side of their PLATFORM, then they have to hit the left arrow key (or devise some other control scheme, but keep this for illustrative purposes). That means a split-second later, the mortar could be pointing ahead of the player avatar, so they'll have to time their shots and position their avatar in such a way as to carefully time their TURRET fire in order to be effective. The camera perspective might work better as a top-down perspective to better see the TURRET position. Alternatively, the spinning could be disabled (for a 3rd person shooter) so that the weapon switch button would switch to the next weapon, but all of the weapons could still be fire-able in their LATENT (vs ACTIVE) positions, supplying the player with passive buffs and SECONDARY FIRE actions.

Working Title(s):
An RTS (or turn based strategy???) where unit production speed is determined by how much power is being fed into the factory making that unit. Power supplies would have a set of lines, where each line could trace to a different building or "hub" object. The Hub would aggregate lines for greater output of a single line. Maybe call them Joins instead of hubs. Anyway, the amount of power supplied by a line would be inversely proportional to the distance between the power supply and the factory unless the lines are upgraded or aided by signal boosting stations along its path. Lines could be reassigned at any time to dynamcically provide the power to produce units in order to face a dynamic threat.

Working Title(s):
A board game where every player cooperates to build an empire. Each player would be assigned a sector to work in, producing goods and services to trade with other sectors (players). Players could work together to build the infrastructure of a great society, or be encouraged to go it alone in an attempt to gain power down the road in determing the course of the empire, where their choices could benefit their sector at the cost of the whole. The only question remains is what would be a motivating factor to screw your friends over in order to help yourself out? And what would be engaging for the players if they all just decided to cooperate and then the end game would be "Hey, look at this cool empire you've built!" ? Possibly have an extraneous scenario increase the pressure on the game as the players go, such as an imminent invading force or an economic collapse (either contained vis a vis a single sector or the whole shebang). This way, a selfish (or benevolent if their intentions are right?) player would take the risk of increasing their standing even though their sector could be at risk of collapse. Players would have to weigh the risks of being selfish and possibly using that wealth to better prepare for an invasion, or increasing their chances of surviving the onslaught while other players are defeated. This idea needs work...


Working Title(s):
An rpg whereby leveling is achieved by tending your garden, in that certain seeds of plants are made available to players for purchase or through the execution of actions. The action seeds would reflect the game-world ramifications of the choice made. Each plant would have benefits and disadvantages that could be enhanced through plant hybridization. Also, plants would interact with each other on a biological level, either encouraging or discouraging each other's growth/potency, and so placement in the garden would be essential. Player attributes and NPC perception would also change based on the state of the garden, should they cultivate plants that prove or at least give the impression of social dynamics within the player. A player's outward appearance would also change according to the state of their "sould-garden". Furthermore, there could be class-specific plants that only grow when near the TREE in the garden that signifies the player's class choice. The health of the plants could also be affected by the actions taken in the game world (killing, building, etc.)
