Players do their best to hold up the prime directive when fighting the Sumivacen, working tiresly to save proto-civilizations from exposure and enslavement. This is their main objective.
    Missions to include: bomb in the center of the planet, planetary bombardment (by weapons or large mass(asteroid, moon, sun, sumivacen ship)), invasion
    
Planets sub-divided into hex segments, battles take place there. Hexes can contain major control objectives, but ideally, control of hexes depends on nearby control objectives and can function as settlment zones for players' colonies.

Find way to sub-divide planet hex-mapping so that a small number of hexes can be used for the surface, but then get to finer and finer detail closer to the surface. Ideas: Hexes within hexes, squares within hexes, triangles within hexes. Be sure to have a description of a particular sector that illustrates its importance to completing the next highest or same level objective(s). Visually display an algorithm that players can use in order to know what they need to do to complete minor objective 'a' and how it relates to completeing major objective 'A'.

Latin translations for home are neat.

Try to use shockwaves when determining damage, enclosed spaces increase explosive damage.

Players, within their pods on the eye of Nydera, have command chairs that connect to a main shaft and can move freely within the area, like admiral ackbar's ship in the return of the jedi. These chairs also exist for use by their android selves on bigger vessels. These chairs allow easy transfer between modularized functions of the ship.

Rescue ships. Players can control these to pick up refugees. Players also have ships equipped for fire fighting, with hoses, tanks, and intake pipes (if near a body of water)

When displaying missions on world map: blue circles for building and improvment missions(non-combat), green squares for defense/fortification/supply reinforcment missions, red triangles for attack/commit offensive force missions. When players engage in these missions, and are successful, they recieved the blue circle, green square, or red triangle as badges, and are able to use the badges to level up (something, I don't know...maybe level alltogether). Higher badge tiers get fancier pictures. Players can also filter out types of missions this way. Not all missions fall directly under one type, but can be represented by one, two, or three badges, but successful completion results not in a full badge, but rather, half for each color present.

Look at comeback mechanics: instead of a comeback mechanic, win/loss conditions can also occur if troop ratios are met/exceeded, allowing players to opt for a tactical retreat or the initiation of a timer that stops when the ratio is balanced, or when a major objective is completed (so long as there is an in-game reason as to why a tactical advantage is given to the players upon completing the objective)

Story: Player Characters are relegated to living their lives in power chairs due to the fact that their bones suffer from extreme mineral loss caused by an extended time in space/micro-gravity conditions.

Movement: Players can walk and get into vehicles like any other game, but there ways to move around the map in a more dynamic and speedy way. In space, players are inside ships, but these ships can interact with static sling-shot launchers, where they can sling in any (how would that work, maybe just the traditional fork slingshot) direction at high speed to either be caught by another sling shot or by the gravitational pull of a nearby planet. Players can still move relatively well under their own power, but can set up high-speed bombing runs and strafe hits on enemy positions in space or on the planet below (while in orbit). On the ground, players can also use the slingshot technique, though to less effect, so that they can quickly move from point to point (possibly set up a control system so that only certain slings can be used.). Players can still move on their own legs for finer detailed tasks, like moving through a building. Players might be able to employ mobile, personal versions of sling technology to the point where they can zip around like spiderman. Mobile slings on the back of large vehicles might also be feasible. It could be that sling speed would be limited by player-character size and sling power.

Realism -1: Planets are more like very small planetoids with stylized buildings and natural phenomena, and interact with each other on a gravitational level (every time players play in a certain area, the position and presence of certain items could change due to gravity/magnetism??). Planets are big enough where players feel like they aren't crowded, but small enough to the point where they can make out the curvature of their plane of movement on the planet's surface.

Overall design: State driven game, where different systems that keep track of different resources interact in such a way as to create a dynamic environment that players, at the same time are subjected to, but can also work together to mitigate (read, not completely stopped!).

Sumivacen, while also employing slavery and violence as a tool in order to engender obedience into its soldiers, also equip their soldiers with reality "enhancing" (effacing) technologies so that they can be motivated to fight against the rebellion, not only because they are politically dissonant, but ALSO the sumivacen have them believeing that the rebellion are an invading force, and the reality "enhancing" tech cause them to percieve them as grotesque aliens from another world. The sumivacen soldiers are gung ho. Additionally, sumivacen and players can hack into each other's technology to have the footsoldiers expereince different things, subtley chaning the perceptions of players so that they unknowingly fight for the wrong side.

Player bases are not on asteroids within a fields, but rather within the oort cloud of the given solar system on comets that are nudged out of their highly elliptical orbits into more circular ones closer to the habitable zones of the stars.

MECHANIC: Mini objectives are assigned to player based on class, whereby if a player is a medic class, the system could give them a mini objective to heal a hurting comrade (if failed, the objective doesn't reprimand the player.) This could be implemented with an environment and player aware AI that would assign these tasks and give bonus XP to players for completing them. Could be implemented through the environment AI --> 4d computer mindnet mentioned earlier <-- where the AI would populate visual cues onto player displays based on their class. No need for health bars on turrets (mechanic) either, but in addition to smoking/sparking effects, wrap object in a semi-translucent, pulsating color.

Also, implement dynamic cover, not in the destructible sense, but in the animated sense, where cover pops up and down, spins, or moves side to side to increase player engagement. Tying in with the mini objective mechanics, players that have abilities to control dynamic/active cover could have areas highlighted where cover would need to go, or where cover would need to be "glued" to an in-game object, such as a moving player (to protect them from dying for a short time), or to a window for extra defense, or to the sides of vehicles for extra defense.

Docking:
Players can fly around in their ships, but if they need a more stable firing position (for defensive (defending a capital ship) or long-range firing), they can dock onto static structures and enter turret mode, which gives them higher defense and access to the powersource of their static dock. Some static docks might include: Capital ships, asteroids, space stations. Players could also undock at any time if their quarry is out of range. Maybe even start battles out with players docked on the external hull of the capital ship, as opposed to having a huge hanger to fly out of.

Orbit/Path Trace:
Abstract manual flying to allow player to choose a predefined or to trace out a path to repeat in a loop fashion. Orbit around a captial ship or asteroid, for instance, and keep main ship functionality. Allow control for choosing speed and direction around path, so that a player could remain static (above, below, to the side, behind, etc.) relative to the capital ship or quickly change position to face new threat. Player can break from path at any time, or choose another one --> possibly require only choosing predefined orbits around large or static objects, but provide many of them. Rotation within the orbit would be allowed, to let player also establish orbits around enemy ships and aim downward, however this should leave the player vulnerable somehow in order to discourage a bunch of players just hogging the orbits of sumivacen ships (maybe make it easier for sumivacen to target, since their paths are predictable, or require some sort of authentication mechanism before orbits are granted, as they are limited.)

Formations:
Orbits could also be static points, where players maintain a position outside of a ship and move with it. This would be handy for establishing squadrons without having to maintain formation manually, autopilot would take over. Rotation in this sense should be more litmited when as a fighter you choose to form a squadron with other fighters, as you would need to keep up with the leader. Possibly allow players to equip swiveling secondary guns onto their ships (or provide them generically) so they can target enemies and protect the squadron without breaking formation.

AI Formations:
Players can take on the role of leader, but there may not necessarily be enough players to form squadrons of fighters. Or players might want to go it alone. In that case, players can choose (often inferior when compared with players) game AI to create squadrons and customize them to their tastes. In this way, players can retain agency, for example, if a bomber squadron is formed, the leader can order the AI to bomb a target all at once while maintaining formation. Maybe move away from player formations altogether, and have the player just create and customize squads, where they can control with a top-down view when they are in formation, but at any time they switch to a first person perspective if they need their squadron to break up and engage individual targets. Players are contantaly aware of their AI squadron member statuses, health and whatnot, and can form up again at any time. Players control capital ships or squadron leaders, and smaller units can only orbit larger units --> squadrons orbit/maintain position at capital ships. If need be, players can set squadron tactics, e.g. if your hull is breached, go to repair station with escort then join back up when you're ready. Individual commands to individual squadron members might be too cumbersome. Squadrons can only be formed with ships of the same class (fighter, bomber, etc.) so that there is a unified role. A jack of all trades squad would require individual commands to different sub-groups of squadrons. AI formations could be extended to work in ground combat scenarios.

Capital Ship Combat--> Onboard:
Float in space, no artificial gravity, first person perspective, small arms within ships large enough to accomodate such action. Brainstorm different ways to move around also using paths or fast lanes.

Scoring: No KDR, no points. Just doing your job. Evaluate objectives based on intrinsic and tactical value only. Optionally, each player instead nominates someone (not themselves) to be recognized formally at the end of the round. That someone is then given mission rewards correlating with the number of nominations. Players can also report in-game crimes of other players so long as they are able to prove it. Without proof, they are reprimanded (probation? temporary rank reduction?), but with proof, the other player is reprimanded and the proving player is recognized. Proving player can also list accomplices/witnesses.

Conversations: Players can skip conversations, but instead of just skipping dialogue or moving on to the next dialogue branch, players instead cut the other person off, either brusquely or gently or somewhere in-between, in order to excuse themselves from the conversation. Depending on NPC standing, NPC could be humbled, alienated, hurt, infuriated, or etc when a player chooses this action.

Verticality in a Space RTS:
Abstract Z coordinates to a set of planes that units can inhabit where each plane is 1000 meters? 3 - 5 vertical planes? Additionally, have a constant planetary plane for anti-orbital weapons.


REWRITE: I like the idea of a hollow planet --> Where aerial battles take place, and then individual islands on the planet surface that can be explored --> chunking up the discovery w/o overwhelming the player, think Assassin's Creed: Black Flag. With using planets, there's a lot less character as in, "Here is this orb and some space around it." The size of the planet doesn't really convey how much there is to do there, whereas size is proportional to activities in AC:BF, so it would then give the player a better handle on where the limits of the world are. Also, having a hollow planet (or at least largely hollow, with nodes and travel ways and maybe some large atriums) is just more appealing than the LIMITLESS SPACE trope. This might eat into the idea of player controlled outposts...might have to nix that feature.
